Software testing principle  
-> 7 Principles of Software Testing
1.Testing shows presence of defects
2.Exhaustive testing is not possible
3.Early testing
4.Defect clustering
5.Pesticide paradox
6.Testing is context dependent
7.Absence of errors fallacy



Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
-> It is a process used by the software industry to design, develop and test high quality softwares. 
   The SDLC aims to produce a high-quality software that meets or exceeds customer expectations, reaches completion within times and cost estimates.

Phases of SDLC
1. Requirement collection / gathering / analysis
2. Feasibility study
3. Design
4. Coding
5. Testing
6. Installation and deployment
7. Maintenance


STLC  
-> Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) is a sequence of specific activities conducted during the testing process to ensure software quality goals are met. 
   STLC involves both verification and validation activities.

Phases of STLC
1. Test analysis / planning
2. Test management
3. Test design
4. Test execution
5. Support and maintenance


Types of Software testing 
1. Manual Testing

1.1. Whitebox
1.2. Blackbox

1.2.1. Functional Testing

1.2.1.1. Unit 
1.2.1.2. Integration
1.2.1.2.1. Incremental 

1.2.1.2.1.1. Top down (Stub is used) 
1.2.1.2.1.2 Bottom up(Driver is used)

1.2.1.2.2. Non-incremental 

1.2.1.3. System
1.2.1.4. UAT

1.2.1.4.1. Alpha (Developer side)
1.2.1.4.2. Beta (Clent/end user side)

1.2.2. Non-functional testing 
1.2.2.1. Performance

1.2.2.1.1. Load
1.2.2.1.2. Stress
1.2.2.1.3. Scability
1.2.2.1.4. Stability

1.2.2.2 Usability
1.2.2.3. Compatability

1.3. Grey box  (Both)

2. Automation Testing



Levels of testing
-> 1. Unit Testing
   2. Integration Testing
   3. System Testing
   4. User Acceptance Testing


SDLC methodologies
->  1. Waterfall
    2. Spiral
    3. Hybrid
    4. Prototype
    5. V-shaped
    6. Agile


Manual Testing is the oldest type of software testing where the testers manually execute test cases without using any test automation tools.
It means the software application is tested manually by QA testers.


Automation Testing is the process of using the assistance of tools, scripts, and software to perform test cases by repeating pre-defined actions.
Test Automation focuses on replacing manual human activity with systems or devices that enhance efficiency.


Unit Testing - It is a way of testing the smallest piece of code referred to as a unit that can be logically isolated in a system. 
It is mainly focused on the functional correctness of the standalone module.

Integration Testing – It is a level of software testing where individual units are combined and tested to verify if they are working as they intend to when
integrated.The main aim here is to test the interface between the modules.

System Testing – In system testing all the components of the software are tested as a whole in order to ensure that the overall product meets the 
requirements specified.There are dozens of types of system testing, including usability testing, regression testing, and functional testing.

User Acceptance Testing – The final level, acceptance testing, or UAT (user acceptance testing), determines whether or not the software is ready to be
released.

Alpha Testing is a type of acceptance testing; performed to identify all possible issues and bugs before releasing the final product to the end users.

Beta Testing is performed by “real users” of the software application in “real environment” and it can be considered as a form of external User Acceptance 
Testing.It is the final test before shipping a product to the customers


The testbed is an environment configured for testing. It is an environment used for testing an application, including the hardware as well as any software 
needed to run the program to be tested.It consists of hardware, software, network configuration, an application under test, other related software.
.
A test case is a document that has a set of conditions or actions that are performed on the software application in order to verify the expected 
functionality of the feature.

API testing is a type of software testing where application programming interfaces (APIs) are tested to determine if they meet expectations for 
functionality, reliability, performance, and security.In simple terms, API testing is intended to reveal bugs, inconsistencies or deviations from the 
expected behavior of an API.


A bug is a just fault in the software that’s detected during testing time. 
A defect is a variance between expected results and actual results, detected by the developer after the product goes live.









Retesting means testing the functionality or bug again to ensure the code is fixed. If it is not fixed, Defect needs to be re-opened. 
If fixed, Defect is closed.

Regression testing means testing your software application when it undergoes a code change to ensure that the new code has not affected other parts of 
the software.



Quality Assurance is known as QA and focuses on preventing defect. Quality Assurance ensures that the approaches, techniques, methods and processes are 
designed for the projects are implemented correctly.


Quality Control is known as QC and focuses on identifying a defect. QC ensures that the approaches, techniques, methods and processes are designed in the 
project are following correctly. QC activities monitor and verify that the project deliverables meet the defined quality standards.


Verification in Software Testing is a process of checking documents, design, code, and program in order to check if the software has been built according 
to the requirements or not.The main goal of verification process is to ensure quality of software application, design, architecture etc. 
The verification process involves activities like reviews, walk-throughs and inspection.


Validation in Software Engineering is a dynamic mechanism of testing and validating if the software product actually meets the exact needs of the customer 
or not.The process helps to ensure that the software fulfills the desired use in an appropriate environment. 
The validation process involves activities like unit testing, integration testing, system testing and user acceptance testing. 


Blackbox testing techniques:

Boundary Value Analysis
Equivalence Class Partitioning 
State Transition Table



Exploratory testing is a hands-on approach in which testers are involved in minimum planning and maximum test execution. 

In order to identify and execute the functional requirement of an application from start to finish “use case” is used and the techniques used to do this 
is known as “Use Case Testing.”

SDLC deals with development/coding of the software while STLC deals with validation and verification of the software


Equivalence partitioning testing is a software testing technique which divides the application input test data into each partition at least once of 
equivalent data from which test cases can be derived.By this testing method, it reduces the time required for software testing.

